Ad click aggregator:
It is a system which collects and aggregates data on add clicks. It is used by advertisers to track the performance
of their adds and optimize their campaigns. For the problem we'll assume these adds are displayed on a website like FB.

Functional requirements:
1. Users can click adds and get redirected to advertisers page.
2. Advertisers can query the click metrics over time w 1min granularity

Scale:
10M adds at a time 
10k clicks/sec

Non functional requirements:
1. low latency analytics <1s 
2. support peak 10k cps
3. fault tolerant and data integrity(don't loose clicks)
4. idempotency of add clicks

System Interface and data flow:

Input data
- click data
- advertiser queries

Outputs:
- redirection
- aggregate metrics

Data flow:
1. click data comes into System
2. user is redirected 
3. data is validated
4. data persisted in backend and aggregated
5. aggregation is queried

HLD:

Server side redirect is preferred as users can go to advertiser websites without us knowing about it.
The click processing svc processes the click and returns 302 redirect status code.

Cassandra as the db as it is write optimised but it is not optimised for range queries and aggregation. 
For that we need a read and aggregation optimsed db [OLAP].
Also its a good idea to batch process the data using Spark [every 5min], and write it down to the olap (SNOWFLAKE)

Deep dives:

Flink will take events out of the event stream and aggregate them on real time.
The aggregation window of flink will be 1min.
Flush windows:10s , write the aggregated result to the db

Flink also supports flush intervals, so we can aggregate on a minute boundary but flush the results every couple of seconds

Enable retention policy on Kafka to be fault tolerant (flink going down)


How to handle hot partitions:
If there is a very popular add, then there will be hot partition.
To tackle this, append a random number to the ad id which is the partition key. OLAP will strip this random number and store it.

Stream processors like Flink also have a feature called checkpointing. This is where the processor periodically writes its state
to a persistent storage like S3. If it goes down, it can read the last checkpoint and resume processing from where it left off. 

Handling idempotency of clicks:
The add service generates an impression id (signed for security) for each add placement and sends 
it to the browser, when the user clicks on the add, the browser sends the impression ID along with 
the click data. The Click Processor verifies the signature of the impression ID. 
The Click Processor checks if the impression ID exists in a cache. If it does, then it's a duplicate,
 and we ignore it. If it doesn't, then we write to the stream first, then add the impression ID to the cache