Functional requirements:
start groups chats 
send/recieve messages (and media)
view chat history
access message  after offline

Non functional requirements:
messages delivered with low latency <500ms
guaranteed delivery of messages 
Billions of users, highh throughput
Fault tolerant : message delivery is guaranteed
high availability w.r.t sending and reciving messages, eventual consistency (<2s) w.r. message read.

Core Entitites:
User 
chat
messages
client 

DB:
Dynamodb (or cosmosdb)

API:
we'll be using websockets over TCP

createchat()
sendmessage()
modifyusers()

recievemessage()
chatupdate()
 

HLD:

Important:
when the server sends a msg over websocket, it waits for an ack from the client.
If the websocket connection is broken, the ack is not recieved and the server retires it for some time, after that it closes the 
connection, forcing the client to recreate the connection and get the msg from inbox.

We can improve this by heartbeats.

Chats table:
chatid as pk

Chat participants:
pk:{chat id,participantid}
gsi:{participantid,chatid}

the chat server will maintain a hashmap of the active open WS connections:
client1:ws1, client2:ws2 ...

For designing chat push when back online:
use separate tables Messages and Inbox, inbox will contain the messages for each recipientid. This makes the message durable
We can maintain per deviceid, a cursor of lasstacked successfully delivereed message.
The client will request for the messages from the next cursor when back online.

Write steps:
Client asks for the corresponding chat server -> chat registry gives a server numer using  consistent hashing to the client 
->connects to the specific server and writes to it (messages table and inbox table).
The chat servers which serve a set of users are kept in a centralised registry like Zookeper

There are 2 ways in which we can handle last seen, we can send periodic heartbeats from the client to presence svc,
which will populate the status for the user in cache with a ttl, and whenever we request the last seen for a user 
from the chat svc, we read it from the redis instance.

The other option is, whenevr the client requests for a last seen fr other user, get the server corresponding to the other 
user , and at that time if the user is connected return online.
Just maintain a db which tracks the disconnects of the websocketconnection for each user and stores it as lastseen,
override it when the connection is back again.



https://excalidraw.com/#json=uQzFieFrSHJaRPtstB5E3,mUZ9FpM-5CF_3R9cUoFjvw
